# Academy2021Assignment

#### Why I implemented the prototype this way
* The amount of code is so small, that a structure with no events or other abstractions still works. Events should be implemented if the game grew to be more complex. I wanted to keep everything as lean as possible.
* I wanted to be able to create new obstacles in the editor quickly, so you can basically grab any 2D shape and put a trigger collider on it, tag it as an obstacle and it will act as an obstacle after you plug it into the obstacle prefab list in the player controller. That makes iterating on the game easier.
    * A dynamic system which automatically assigns the colors for the obstacles from the GameController when they are spawned should be implemented.
* The player classes OnTriggerEnter2D is at the center of the interactions that happen while playing the game, as the game is dependent on the player hitting something for the game to be lost or progressed in. All important calls to the GameController from the PlayerController are made from OnTriggerEnter2D.

#### Additional features I'd like to implement
* RPG style mechanic, where you could actually level up your character and get higher more easily. This could be done through extra lives and extra powers, like being able to smash through obstacles with a special jump or slow down time. I think this could add a lot more replay value and retention. You could buy these powers with the stars you've collected.
    * I would implement this feature by adding methods like 'PowerJump' and 'SlowTime' to the PlayerController. Power jump would be based on a boolean that could be used to check if the character is in 'power mode' that allows it to smash through obstacles. Slowing time could be done by just multiplying the time scale by something lower than one. Extra lives would need an integer to keep count of them. The powers themselves would need to be a a list in GameController that can be used to keep track of which powers the player has enabled.
* Loot crates every 10 or 20 stars, which drop special powers in a randomized way. This would add more of the roguelite element to the game and make every play through unique.
    * Could heavily lean on the system created for the special powers in the first feature. Could be at first implemented by simply checking if the player has hit an object tagged as a loot crate and then calling a loot crate method from the GameController which returns a random power to add to the player's arsenal.
* Boss fights every 40 stars. Bosses who shoot colorful balls that bounce off the walls in angles. (Not directly at you, so they can be dodged simply by jumping.) The bosses take breaks in shooting the balls and when you know the basic pattern of each boss. If you hit a ball that is the color of your own player ball, that ball richochets back towards the boss and does damage to it. The first boss would need only a couple hits to be defeated, so not anything ridiculously hard.
    * Needs its own class to handle boss behavior, BossController or something along those lines. This would keep control how the boss shoots its balls, with multiple possible different patterns. Then a correct boss prefab with the script can be instantiated when the player enters a boss fight.